Welcome to my blog. It's not too late to turn back, dear reader...yet.

[[xkcd comic: blogging][]]

_xkcd/741_ #### Curiosity and participation I spend a lot of time on
"the web" (and while I appreciate the availability of such a
seemingly-succinct term, I feel rather guilty by attempting to account
for [zetta-bytes of indexed data][] with two 3-letter-1-syllable words).
The pages I browse in my leisure are usually interesting enough to keep
my attention (admittedly, this is [not too high of a threshold][]), and
the best content is often free-of-charge. Almost any rote or technical
question I have can be answered instantly, and accessing scores of
articles, videos, podcasts, forum-threads, and opinion pieces on topics
of all kinds in real-time is a given. All controllable at any instant
from a device fitting in my pocket, of course. It is increasingly
difficult for me -- born in the mid 1990's -- to imagine the lives of
those who were not (or are currently not) connected to the vast trove of
hyperlinks that many people now rely on (and trust) for nearly
everything they do. In exchange for all of this convenience, I must
concede much of my privacy, [which is in many ways dead][]. Despite this
cost, I imagine I would miss the level of connection to the rest of the
world which the web -- or a similar construct -- can offer, were it to
become permanently inaccessible.

Occasionally, though, I find myself at a dead-end. [DuckDuckGo][] does
not return any results, and [Google][] has nothing interesting to
report, either. After sifting through pages-upon-pages of content, there
are no hyperlinks left to be followed in my search for answers. It is
often in this situation (and a few select others) when I most acutely
recognize that I am undeniably, first-and-foremost, a _consumer_ of the
web. I see nothing inherently wrong with this notion (or with anyone
else who identifies in this manner), yet I still feel somewhat troubled.
If my experience with the web were analogous to observing a vast,
fantastic, and full-of-life formal ball -- yet subsequently declining to
participate in a dance with any kind-hearted and well-intentioned
person, _should I be asked_ -- I posit this would be considered quite
rude by the other attendees, the requester, and myself. Is this a
reasonable analogy with which to encapsulate the entirety of the web and
all of its nuances? Probably not (though I suspect any such attempt
would necessitate [references to cats][]). Ultimately, it is not as if
the web is a [key-signing party][]; I need not participate on the web to
freely enjoy its content.

Even so, I begin to think. What can _I_ do? Do I have any valuable
contributions to bring forth to a place in which I spend much of my
time? I doubt I will ever be convinced of a definitive answer to this
last question, but I start thinking of different approach vectors
anyways. A YouTube channel? A Twitch or Twitter live-feed? How about a
stack-exchange account? Dare I suggest a budding career as a "meme
lord"? In different ways, I am intrigued by each of these ideas, but I
envision a medium more...enduring. Flexible. Accessible. And so, with
many other worthy options available to me, I reached a settlement: a
simple text-based web-log will do.

Prior to writing this post, I have never kept a formal log of my
opinions and reflections on any material (no journal, no diary, no
audio-notes-to-self). Am I capable of doing such a task in a manner
pleasing to the general reader? Is it possible for me to accurately
convey my full thoughts and experiences within the boundaries of
journalism, or at all for that matter? Whether or not I will achieve
long-term success in any of these tasks is presently unclear to me, and
I suppose I will never get a satisfying answer to my curiosities unless
I take action. And so the blog began to take form, as I write somewhat
wistfully in [Vim the editor][], using [markdown][] syntax and bringing
a trusty [spell-checker][] in tow (I can assert that many a [s, zg, and
z= are being used).

Before the fun, a Disclaimer

The primary driver behind this blog is having fun, and the opportunity
for me to write about material which I consider amenable to discussion
in some context. I'd like to note that any and all thoughts I now -- or
will -- express on this blog are _not_ intended to be taken too
seriously: my blog and its contents are never meant to be considered the
workings of a manifesto, hard-set rule-book, or any of their ilk.
Presently at 20 years of age, I find it very difficult to imagine myself
creating, understanding, or condoning formal stances regarding my
existence, purpose, or ability to cast judgment (particularly when
considering the [frontal lobe][] of my brain is a long ways away from
reaching full maturity, and my relationship with God is far from
adequately explored). The blog can certainly change to adapt to events
happening in my life, and will always be a flexible medium which I
expect to grow alongside me.

Before enumerating what I initially believe the blog is intended to be
(and to not be), I have a few remarks on readability and usability that
I feel compelled to discuss. You're welcome to skip around at your
leisure, as the sections of this post are mostly independent of each
other--reading them in the order I placed them in is recommended for
optimal comprehension, though. Finally, I will mention that this post
covers a lot of meta-data about the blog, and is not likely to be
interpreted as very interesting to read in comparison to the content of
future posts. (yes, it's too late to turn back, the sections are
[_numbered_ now][]...) ## 1. Styling ### 1.1. Readability The styling
used in this blog is intentionally kept simple in comparison to what I
have come to expect from most web-based blogs. In general, I will give
my attention to any media (e.g. text, image, audio, video) that has a
positive net value or interesting qualities to it, but the styling
choices employed by most blogs and media sites make the process of
lexing, parsing, semantically analyzing, and evaluating (interpreting)
the pattern of bits which illuminate my screen rather strenuous and not
enjoyable. However, I am not bothered enough by this to cease media
consumption altogether; I often find the content itself to be
interesting and worthwhile, and so I remain under the auspices of their
styling.

1.1.1. Fonts and Rendering

[Vollkorn][] (a serif) is the font used to render all text on the blog
at the time of writing -- according to [its designer][], the font's name
is German for 'wholemeal' and is described as "bouncing and healthy" --
I have not devised my own anthropomorphic adjectives for Vollkorn
(...yet). I am overall pleased with the current rendering of the blog,
and am able to read content with minimal discomfort on mobile and
desktop; however, I am acutely aware that my presentation of text on
this page may not be enjoyable for all audiences. If you prefer to read
in [plaintext][], or would like to render the [raw markdown][] to suit
your own optimal viewing environment, you will find links to each at the
bottom of every post on the blog (the plaintext includes all hyperlinks,
re-formatted with pandoc as reference-style links).

Settling on color choices for hyperlinks, code snippets, and other
pigment-related aspects of the blog are perhaps the most difficult
commitments for me to make. Out of 16,777,216 available colors, which do
I choose to render in hopes of appeasing the reader and providing
maximum legibility? Are my blues too dark, my oranges too bright? I
doubt I will ever be fully-satisfied with the coloring, and anticipate
it will be perpetually tweaked. I may eventually commit to writing a
guide with recommendations of different fonts, styling, and legibility
considerations for rendering content, which could be helpful to readers
whom are seeking alternatives to browsing the blog as is. It is my
utmost goal to provide an enjoyable reading experience for all who come
to the blog--I am open to suggestions on different styling, fonts, and
other typography (e.g. [TeX Gyre][] collection and the like). You're
welcome to send me a [pull request][] or leave comments.

1.1.2. Embedded Content and External Sources

The readability of a page further depends upon, to my eyes, the presence
and placement of embedded, non-textual media such as photographs or
video ([I am looking at you, GIFs][].). Communicating my thoughts
through media other than text will be done sparingly, and often be
linked-to content rather than embedded, despite the ease of embedding
images, audio, and video on the blog. I prefer to maintain a sense of
continuity in the medium I am using to convey myself; disrupting its
flow without good reason is decidedly unpleasant. I believe I feel this
way in part due to my inclination to open embedded content at its
(external) source rather than on the page itself. In defense of embedded
content, seeing excerpts of quoted text from an external source or
including a well-placed image is perfectly reasonable to me (perhaps you
will see -- or _have seen_ -- instances of both in this very
post...odd...). I genuinely do not mind experiencing non-textual media,
and often _enjoy_ the content when it is either befitting or adds a
layer to the content consumption which the original medium is
inadequately suited to serve -- the subtlety that an external link
provides to-this-end is a nicety.

1.2. Usability

1.2.1. Navigation

As you may have noticed, on the navigation links I provide -- either on
the top right of the page for desktop users, or in draw-table fashion
from the [hamburger button][] for mobile users -- all of the options
contain only two characters. It may seem rather foolish to use such
little space when a much wider screen real-estate is available.
Initially, I spelled out each navigation link as follows:

    | blog home | categories | tags | contact me | main site |

During earlier designs of the blog, this format appeared to render quite
nicely -- that is, until I made the mistake of attempting to read text
on the page. It became immediately apparent on the desktop view that
spelling out each link made for a very distracting reading environment.
The bright white color of the links certainly did not help this
predicament any, so a simpler approach is what you see now. ls,
naturally, is short for list (as in, "list all of the blog entries";
it's a [Unix thing][]).

Why have a navigation bar at all, then? Isn't its mere existence at the
heart of my dissatisfaction with encountering distracting, eye-arresting
content while trying read a blog? Well, as the title of this subsection
suggests: I include the navigation bar because it affords crucial
_usability_. I find that my general enjoyment of using a site starts
with an easily-accessible means of navigating to important pages, and so
I have attempted to replicate this principle-for-enjoyment on both the
blog and [the main site][]. Furthermore, I experience a small, yet
persistent level of discomfort with the complete absence of identifying
markers such as a navigation bar -- however subtly I _do_ in fact prefer
them to appear. And that is how the navigation bar (and its contents)
came to be.

My largest regret in including a navigation bar actually has nothing to
do with readability, and yet it bothers me deeply: for readers using a
mouse on the desktop view of the site, the navigation bar has little
respect for [Fitts' Law][] in the context of affording accessibility
between navigation links and blog posts themselves; it is a tremendous
flaw that is (requisite?) payment for having a more distraction-free
reading environment -- at least until I can devise a better solution. I
thereby elect to use the touch-screen capability of my laptop computer
to invoke hyperlinks, rather than suffer my self-imposed penalty of
mishandling Fitts' Law. I highly encourage all readers whom find the
navigation bar's presence or interactions distracting to render the [raw
markdown][raw markdown] in an environment which pleases them.

1.2.2. Organization

There actually isn't a whole lot to say on this aspect of the site. With
such a broad array of topics to blog about (see 2.2.), and potentially
different audiences for each, I decided that organization by tags and
categories are currently the best tool available to me with which to
sort the content I write. It turns out that I do have [search
capabilities on the site][], but the results from major search engines
are simply not as fast, accurate, or efficient as navigating through
tags and categories. There is an interesting [Gist on GitHub][]
suggesting a client-side script which will index, and, upon entering
search terms, retrieve posts by leveraging regular expressions--did I
mention that this blog is intentionally deployed statically, and as such
no tasks can be delegated server-side? You also may have noticed that I
start indexes for each section of this post at '1' and not '0'. Will I
 [regret this decision][] in the future? Probably. It's nothing sed
can't handle if needed, though. Lastly, a keen reader familiar with the
university I attend for undergraduate studies will notice that some of
the organization, and in fact content for this very post is inspired by
[Luther's Meanderings][], a blog which I enjoy reading and highly
recommend as a source of interesting, qualitative content.

Overall, is it reasonable for me to assume that my own values and
preferences for readability and usability as noted above should be
fully-embraced by others whom are reading the blog, in part, for the
opportunity to experience my content through a personal, natural lens? I
am genuinely unsure.


2. What is max blog?

2.1. Naming

[[xkcd comic: what does the name mean? 207][]]

_xkcd/207_

2.1.1. Why use a name?

Does a personal blog need to have a name? Could there exist biased
identities, relations, or constructs which I implicitly claim to
associate with or represent by dedicating a name to the blog? I do not
believe that creating such a label is at all necessary for my use
case--so why give the blog a name? According to [Wikipedia][], there are
three common uses for the term:

  1.  In the ancient world, names were thought to be extremely powerful
      and to act, in some ways, as a separate manifestation of a person
      or deity. This viewpoint is responsible both for the reluctance to
      use the proper name of God in Hebrew writing or speech, as well as
      the common understanding in ancient magic that magical rituals had
      to be carried out "in [someone's] name". In the Old Testament, the
      names of individuals are meaningful, and a change of name
      indicates a change of status.

  2.  A name for a brand or product is heavily influenced by marketing
      research and strategy to be appealing and marketable. The brand
      name is often a neologism or pseudoword.

  3.  A name is a term used for identification. Names can identify a
      class or category of things, or a single thing, either uniquely,
      or within a given context.

  I have yet to establish a formal stance on each of these definitions,
  and whether or not any of them are applicable in any part to my
  personal blog. I certainly do not consider the name to be associated
  with a particular religion or be indicative of any status or title,
  nor do I desire to advertise or market it (see 2.3.). It seems to
  follow that "max blog" is more-or-less in line with the 3rd
  definition. I feel dissatisfied with the lack of my own formal
  definition which uniquely fits what I believe are my intentions, but I
  will resign to the given 3rd definition for the time being.

Lastly, I hold no definitive or reasonable argument for why there may be
net value or benefit to collectively referring to these text files as
"max blog". At the very least, I do not _intend_ to deceive readers or
claim I accurately represent a subset of the words "meticulousness,
abstraction, xyz" in any satisfying or verifiable manner. I believe it
is too early to know the answers to most of my own questions on the
subject. Perhaps, though, I take the idea of a name far too seriously...

2.1.2. "max"

As for the terms themselves, I attribute much of my knowledge of
computer science to learning how to think with and recognize meticulous
behavior, and to discovering the affordances of abstraction, a construct
with which many different levels of detail come together to form a
cohesive and often elegant stack-- I intend to write blog entries with
these core principles in mind, particularly with entries more technical
in nature. "xyz" is a not-so-cleverly-disguised reference to the gTLD
upon which this blog resides at the time of writing (somewhere in the
depths of Amazon Cloudfront and S3); "xyz" is also intended to imply
"and everything else" when read in conjunction with the former two terms
(a [Kleene star][] is suitable here as well). The ordering of the
initials was entirely due to the coherent word "max" that forms given
the arrangement. Perhaps the name of the blog will eventually change,
disappear, or stay for an indefinite amount of time. My goal in this
respect remains to provide a descriptor of the blog which is not in any
manner deceiving or inaccurate to the reader. ### 2.2. The blog is
primarily a place for me to respectfully express my own thoughts and
curiosities to the general reader on any material -- be it external, or
original -- which I either find intriguing, important to discuss, and/or
worth the reader's attention. In addition to technically-oriented posts,
I may write in a respectful, civilized, and open-minded manner on
religion, popular media, politics, or other very opinionated topics. I
especially encourage writing comments on opinionated posts; all entries
I consider within these bounds will be marked with the [opinion][]
category. On principle, if I have had an experience in which I believe
public writing on may benefit the general reader, I will write, modulo
scheduling (see 3.1.).

In addition, I aim to be cognizant of relevant, reported news at the
time of writing posts as a factor to posting respectful writing. If you
are reading this entry at or shortly after the time of publication, you
are probably aware of the many protests currently happening across the
United States in response to the deaths and treatment of both black
citizens and state police officers ([this image][] by Reuter's Jonathan
Bachman is particularly striking); the country's two major political
parties are due to hold their respective national conventions very soon
(in which candidates for U.S. Presidency are formally nominated); the
augmented-reality industry is (possibly) at our footsteps with the
recent release of the iOS and Android application 'Pokémon GO';
countless other events of interest are being discussed by the general
public (or not at all) in the U.S. and across the world. I do not intend
to address most current news in any reasonable manner, but I do intend
to be cognizant of it when writing.

On the technical side of things, I aim to write about my academic
interests and inquiries, and communicate ideas and thoughts on relevant
academic publications and material. I hope to invite qualitative
discussion from readers on my technical posts; each entry I consider
technical in nature will have the technical category label. I am also
open to collaborative authorship on technical blog posts--please contact
me if you are interested in this.

As mentioned previously in the blog's disclaimer, I do expect the blog
to grow and change as I do. I can also imagine the necessity of
maintaining strictly separate blogs for opinionated and technical
content. If you are particularly inclined to see this change, you are
welcome to comment or contact me.

2.3. The blog is not

a place for blatant/explicit self-advertising or self-promotion. I have
little interest in spreading word of my blog or its posts without
holding good reason, nor to write about myself in a manner of
qualification or suggestion of suitability for a particular paid role or
opportunity. In the context of sharing or spreading word of a particular
blog post I have written, a "good reason" means I believe that sharing
such content is directly helpful to the recipient at the expenditure of
their time, and that I believe I am not sharing such a post with
explicit self-promotion in mind. I do not take any issue with those whom
find, read, and subsequently recommend or share the blog on their own,
nor do I have any issue with those whom directly ask me about my blog
and its contents. You are welcome to do any of those things as you see
fit. Keep in mind the [CreativeCommons license][] at the bottom of this
post.

Furthermore, the blog is not a place for hateful, disrespectful,
maligned, or discriminatory content or discussion of any kind (either
from myself or from readers). Please contact me if you believe I may
have written insensitive content, so that I may rectify it and/or open
discussion for it at length in a respectful manner with an appropriate
audience. I have no intention of offending my readers, and I value any
feedback you may have for me in this context.

I will not publish content that I consider to have little value to my
readers and myself; this includes sponsored advertisements to for-profit
organizations. Appropriate non-profit organizations or causes which are
pertinent to the subject of my writing are welcome to a reference or
potential recommendation from me, provided that including such
information may be helpful to the reader.

To the best of my ability, these are the qualities of the blog I intend
to keep. Other suggestions are welcome in the comments--this is a highly
flexible, amendable set of qualities.


3. Welcome, again

3.1. Schedule

To be frank, I do not have a set schedule for publishing posts. I would
like to write on some order of a bi-weekly or monthly basis, though I do
not consider myself beholden to arbitrary quotas if it comes at the
expense of content quality and purpose. Similarly, I will not write on a
topic longer than is needed to communicate my full thoughts -- I can
imagine, however, needing to redress a topic or return to a topic in
which I have more meaningful and relevant words to write about. Will
every post be of similar length to this one? Probably not at all...but I
suspect several posts in the future will be even longer. If there is a
particular topic of interest or piece of published content which you
would like to see a blog post on here, including my full thoughts on the
material, you are welcome to contact me! (this could be silly in nature,
a research-oriented topic, a difficult moral or ethical situation, or
anything in between; as long as you believe that my writing on such
material would be beneficial to you and the general blog reader.)

3.2. The Reader, and Preview

Would maintaining an e-mail notification list or similar construct to
alert subscribers of a new post be useful for the ardent reader?
Perhaps, but part of me does not like the idea of announcing the
presence of new content, as if to suggest that my writing has a priority
to be read -- an implicit assertion or claim that the best use of a
person's time and attention is to consume the content I created. I am
more fond of the idea that those whom want to read the blog do so of
their own volition and initiative. Thank you for expending your personal
time to scan and interpret the 4101 words I typed (yes, I had to
increment that number by the virtue of typing it out. What a fun bug
that could be in a program!). Regardless of whether or not you agreed
with or enjoyed the content, I do appreciate those whom read in earnest
to-the-end.

If you have made it this far, thanks for reading! I am aware that this
post may come across as rather boring...but I am pleased nonetheless to
have communicated relevant meta-data about the blog. Stay tuned for more
inherently interesting (and fun!) posts that I look forward to writing.

Up next: discussion of a paper recently published in the [37th IEEE S&P
symposium][] which I find amenable to qualitative discussion, or at
least amenable to the enumeration of my own thoughts.

  [xkcd comic: blogging]: https://imgs.xkcd.com/comics/blogging.png
  [zetta-bytes of indexed data]: http://www.livescience.com/54094-how-big-is-the-internet.html
  [not too high of a threshold]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TudFAEUkR9Y
  [which is in many ways dead]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_kBlH-DQsEg
  [DuckDuckGo]: https://duckduckgo.com
  [Google]: https://google.com
  [references to cats]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xdhLQCYQ-nQ
  [key-signing party]: https://xkcd.com/364/
  [Vim the editor]: http://www.vim.org/
  [markdown]: https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/
  [spell-checker]: http://www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=131
  [frontal lobe]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frontal_lobe
  [_numbered_ now]: https://xkcd.com/899/
  [Vollkorn]: https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Vollkorn
  [its designer]: http://friedrichalthausen.de/
  [plaintext]: ../raw/welcome.txt
  [raw markdown]: ../raw/welcome.md
  [TeX Gyre]: http://www.gust.org.pl/projects/e-foundry/tex-gyre
  [pull request]: https://github.com/samuelhavron/blog
  [I am looking at you, GIFs]: https://xkcd.com/1301/
  [hamburger button]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hamburger_button
  [Unix thing]: https://xkcd.com/1508/
  [the main site]: /../index.html
  [Fitts' Law]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fitts%27s_law
  [search capabilities on the site]: /../search.html
  [Gist on GitHub]: https://gist.github.com/sebz/efddfc8fdcb6b480f567
  [regret this decision]: https://xkcd.com/163/
  [Luther's Meanderings]: https://www.cs.virginia.edu/tychonievich/blog/
  [xkcd comic: what does the name mean? 207]: https://imgs.xkcd.com/comics/what_xkcd_means.png
  [Wikipedia]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Name
  [Kleene star]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kleene_star
  [opinion]: /categories/opinion/
  [this image]: https://cdn.theatlantic.com/assets/media/img/notes/2016/07/RTSH3XR/lead_large.jpg
  [CreativeCommons license]: http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/
  [37th IEEE S&P symposium]: http://www.ieee-security.org/TC/SP2016/index.html
